


			How do you run pods
 			till task completion?
				&
			at scheduled times?

=>what is jobs ?
.job is a controller which supervises pods for carrying out certain tasks at a high level jobs are two types 
 one is run to completion which is simply called as jobs and
 other is scheduled which is known as cron jobs
. run to completion:-
  . job is simply referred as jobs this is primarily used for performing batch processing so as soon as we submit this job manifest file to the API server pod will kick in and 
    it will execute a task and when the task is completed it will shutdown by itself so it's called as run to completion job.
  . here controller wil wait for the exit code 0 and the movement pod gets the exit code 0 then job will move away so once the job is completed pods will move from running state
    to shutdown state here kubernetes will not automatically delete these pods we have to do this manually.
  . each job creates one or more pods
  . ensures they are successfully terminated
  . job controller restarts or rescheduled if a pod or node fails during execution
  . can run multiple pods in parallel 
  . can scale up using kubectl scale command
  use cases:
  . one time intialization of resources such as Databases
  . Multiple workers to process messages in queue.

   producer --------> work queue -------> consumer

Config file
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: countdown
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: countdown
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: counter
        image: centos:7
        command:
         - "bin/bash"
         - "-C"
         - "for i in 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 ; do echo $i ; done"
      restartPolicy: Never

Create, Display and Test
- kubectl create -f countdown-jobs.yaml
- kubectl get jobs
- kubectl get po
- kubectl logs countdown-brzdt
Describe
- kubectl describe jobs countdown
Cleanup
- kubectl delete jobs countdown
- kubectl get po

summary:
 concept
 a. job is a controller in k8s, which supervises pods for carrying out certain tasks
 b. run-to-completion(jobs) and scheduled jobs(cronjob)
 c. run-to completion


