1.what is versioning ?

=>Versioning-enabled buckets can help you recover objects from accidental deletion or overwrite.
  For example, if you delete an object, Amazon S3 inserts a delete marker instead of removing the object permanently.
  The delete marker becomes the current object version. If you overwrite an object, it results in a new object version in the bucket.
  You can always restore the previous version.

2.what is kms ?

=>AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is a managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control customer master keys (CMKs),
  the encryption keys used to encrypt your data.

3.When should I use Amazon EFS vs. Amazon S3 vs. Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS)?

=>-Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers cloud storage services to support a wide range of storage workloads.

  -Amazon EFS is a file storage service for use with Amazon EC2. Amazon EFS provides a file system interface,
   file system access semantics (such as strong consistency and file locking), and concurrently-accessible storage for up to thousands of Amazon EC2 instances.

  -Amazon EBS is a block level storage service for use with Amazon EC2.
   Amazon EBS can deliver performance for workloads that require the lowest-latency access to data from a single EC2 instance.

  -Amazon S3 is an object storage service. Amazon S3 makes data available through an Internet API that can be accessed anywhere.

4.what is NAT gateway ?

=>NAT Gateway is a highly available AWS managed service that makes it easy to connect to the Internet from instances within a private subnet
  in an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC). Previously, you needed to launch a NAT instance to enable NAT for instances in a private subnet.

5.What is the difference between Internet gateway and NAT gateway?

=>A NAT device forwards traffic from the instances in the private subnet to the internet or other AWS services,
  and then sends the response back to the instances while Internet Gateway is used to allow resources in your VPC to access internet.

6.what is internet gateways?

=>An internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between your VPC and the internet.
  An Internet Gateway (IGW) is a logical connection between an Amazon VPC and the Internet. It is not a physical device.
  If a VPC does not have an Internet Gateway, then the resources in the VPC cannot be accessed from the Internet

7.Public and private subnets

=>If a subnet is associated with a route table that has a route to an internet gateway, it's known as a public subnet.
  If a subnet is associated with a route table that does not have a route to an internet gateway, it's known as a private subnet.

8.what is route table.

=>A route table contains a set of rules, called routes, that are used to determine where network traffic from your subnet or gateway is directed.
  To put it simply, a route table tells network packets which way they need to go to get to their destination.

9.what is subnet?

=> A large section of IP address divided into chunks is called subnets.
=>subnet is a logical subdivision of an IP network. The practice of dividing a network into two or more networks is called subnetting.
  AWS provides two types of subnetting one is Public which allow the internet to access the machine and another is private which is hidden from the internet.

10. what is NACL ?

=>A network access control list (ACL) is an optional layer of security for your VPC that acts as a firewall for controlling traffic in and out of one or more subnets.
  You might set up network ACLs with rules similar to your security groups in order to add an additional layer of security to your VPC.

11.State: Stateful or Stateless

=>Security groups are stateful: This means any changes applied to an incoming rule will be automatically applied to the outgoing rule.
  e.g. If you allow an incoming port 80, the outgoing port 80 will be automatically opened.

=>Network ACLs are stateless: This means any changes applied to an incoming rule will not be applied to the outgoing rule.
  e.g. If you allow an incoming port 80, you would also need to apply the rule for outgoing traffic.

12.what is security group ?

=>A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instances to control incoming and outgoing traffic. ...
  If you don't specify a security group, Amazon EC2 uses the default security group.
  You can add rules to each security group that allow traffic to or from its associated instances.

13. what is cloudfront ?

=>cloudfront is an AWS web service that provides business and application developers an easy and efficient way to distribute their content with low latency and
  high data transfer speeds.cloudfront is content deliver network for AWS.

14.what is edge locations ?

=>edge locations is the place where contents will cached. when a user tries to access some content, the content will be searched in the edge locations.
  if it is not available then the content will be made avaiable from the origin locations and a copy will be stored in the edge locations.
 
15.what is autoscaling ?

=>auto scaling allows you to automatically scale-up and scale-down the number of instnaces depending on CPU utilization or memory utilization.
  there are 2 components in auto scaling they are auto-scaling groups and launch configuration.

16.How do I decide which load balancer to select for my application?

A:Elastic Load Balancing supports three types of load balancers.
  You can select the appropriate load balancer based on your application needs.
  If you need to load balance HTTP requests, we recommend you to use Application Load Balancer.
  For network/transport protocols (layer4 – TCP, UDP) load balancing, and for extreme performance/low latency applications we recommend using Network Load Balancer.
  If your application is built within the EC2 Classic network then you should use Classic Load Balancer.

17.What are roles and policies in AWS IAM?

=> you manage access in AWS by creating policies and attaching them to IAM identities (users,groups of users, or roles) or AWS resources.
   A policy is an object in AWS that, when associated with an identity or resource, defines their permissions.

18.Lets say I have 50 users , for all 50 users I need to provide same privileges how do it? 

=> create a group and attach some policies to that and add users to that group.

19.I want to give programmatic access means They can access AWS services via api’s  But should not be access AWS web console

=> in add user you wil have an option select AWS access type there you can give programmatic access.

20.As AMI is region specific I want create Machine with AMI which there in other Region is that possible?

=> go to AMI option and if you have any instance you can use enable that and click action in that you have an option copy AMI 
   in that you can choose region 

21.why we need security groups? By default what is outbound rules?

=> A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instances to control incoming and outgoing traffic.
   Inbound rules control the incoming traffic to your instance, and outbound rules control the outgoing traffic from your instance. ...
   If you don't specify a security group, Amazon EC2 uses the default security group.

22.What is VPC? Give a brief about VPC?

=> A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a virtual network dedicated to your AWS account. It is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS Cloud.
   You can launch your AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances, into your VPC.

23.Have you worked on Load balancers? If Yes, tell which load balancers you have used?

=> Elastic load balancer offers the ability to load balance across AWS and on-premises resources, using a single load balancer.
   you can achieve this by registering all of your resources to the same target group and associating target group with a load balancer.


24.Lets say I have created auto scaling rule when ever Load goes more than 60% create a new instance Currently I have 3 machines, 1st machine load  is 62% ,
   2nd machine 30% and 3rd also 30%.  Now will auto scale rule creates new machine ?

=> No, it won't take new machine it takes average of all the machine in that particular group

25. Services used AWS and tasks performed in AWS





